Ledger articles (#302)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/ledger.md

This guide takes you through all the necessary steps to use your Ledger device with Tanssi-powered EVM appchains.

## Setting Up Your Ledger Device {: #setting-up-ledger-device }

If you have a brand new Ledger device, refer to the [official website](https://support.ledger.com/article/4404389503889-zd){target=\_blank} for a guide on getting it started with the initial setup.

Now, with your Ledger already initiated, install the _Ethereum_ app taking the following steps:

1. Open the Ledger Live App on your computer.
2. Go to My Ledger.
3. Connect and unlock the device.

Finally, search for the _Ethereum (ETH)_ app in Ledger Live and install it on your device.

![Install Ethereum in Ledger Live](/images/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/ledger/ledger-1.webp)

And that's it. Your device now has an Ethereum account and is able to sign transactions on any Tanssi-powered EVM appchain.

> ## Adding the Ledger to a Software Wallet {: #adding-Ledger--software-wallet }

Reviewer: Software or Hot Wallet?

Author: Yeah, I was in doubt about using the hardware/software or the cold/hot naming. I'll change it!

> As presented in the [introduction](#introduction), a Ledger hardware wallet provides secure, offline storage for private keys, allowing users to verify and sign transactions. However, by design, it can't interact with blockchains or dApps by itself, nor does it offer a UI for managing assets. To complement the device, a software wallet is required. The user can choose any Ethereum-compatible wallet.

Reviewer: hot wallet?

> For demonstration purposes, we'll show how to configure [Metamask](/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/metamask/){target=\_blank} to work with your hardware wallet. To follow along with the steps, make sure you have Metamask installed in your browser, then open the extension and click on the dropdown icon, next to the account name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For demonstration purposes, we'll show how to configure [Metamask](/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/metamask/){target=\_blank} to work with your hardware wallet, but these steps are generally applicable to any other wallet that supports Ledger. To follow along with the steps, make sure you have Metamask installed in your browser, then open the extension and click on the dropdown icon, next to the account name.
```

![Connect Ledger](/images/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/ledger/ledger-2.webp)

Now click on the **+ Add account or hardware wallet** button.

![Connect Ledger](/images/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/ledger/ledger-3.webp)

Select **Hardware wallet** from the available options.

![Connect Ledger](/images/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/ledger/ledger-4.webp)

On the following screen:

1. Select the **LEDGER** box. You'll be prompted to connect your ledger, unlock it, and open the Ethereum app.
2. Click on **Continue**.

![Connect Ledger](/images/builders/toolkit/ethereum-api/wallets/ledger/ledger-5.webp)

> Finally, you will be presented with a list of derived accounts. Select the first one, click **Unlock**, and that's all! Your Metamask wallet can now sign transactions using your ledger device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you will be presented with a list of derived accounts. Select the one you want to import, click **Unlock**, and that's all! Your Metamask wallet can now sign transactions using your Ledger device.
```
